---
layout: post
title: On Change
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
---

I'm not sure if there's a domain quite so fluid in its nature and changing in its opinions as software development.

I've been working as a professional software engineer since 2006 when I left university with a degree in French and did an immediate 180 degree turn towards my true passion.

Since that time I've gone from building Web apps using (`HTML, CSS and JavaScript`) to Windows apps (`WinForms, WPF, Silverlight, WinRT`), back to Web (`ASP.NET WebForms, ASP.NET MVC`) to Mobile (`iOS, Android, Windows Phone, BlackBerry and Nokia S40`) to a subset (`iOS, Android`) and currently to Apple tech (`iOS, watchOS, iPadOS`).

Every platform has its own UI and UX patterns and paradigms, think of how there used to be a button for everything on Windows vs reduced, simple choices on iPhone. Even interaction models (touch vs keyboard + mouse), animations, sounds, colour schemes all vary.

Then there are the languages you build these apps in, that are highly opinionated. Strongly typed or dynamically typed? Procedural or Functional?
Naming convention differences abound too, is that a `btnBuyNow` or a `BuyNowButton`?
Syntax differences `[NSString stringWithFormat: @"Hello %@", @"Dave"]` vs `"Hello \(name)"`.

There are languages and platforms where design patterns are cooked in to the standard libraries, like Java where you'll find patterns like `Factory`, `Builder`, `Singleton`, `Adapter`, `Iterator`, `Observer` and others where if you want structure then you'll have to create it yourself.

Now I know there are people whose choices of technology have remained more or less static but my experience over the years suggests that change is the norm.
Whether it be fundamental platform changes, language changes, UI/UX changes, attitudinal changes or whatever it may be, change is the universal constant.

On Apple platforms I love Swift, I love how Apple fundamentally shifted from Skeuomorphic design to flat, metro, material design, I love how the iPad moved from 'just a big iPhone' to the only device some people need to work. I love how at WWDC 2019 Apple announced a completely new UI engine based on reactive programming principles, I love how they ship software regularly and fix mistakes.

There may come a time when I think differently but today, today **I love change**, today I love working with Apple platforms and long may the industry continue.

